# Platform browser

Platform browser is type of a web browser for interacting with multi-sided markets. 

This repository will be for specification of the concept and [Asema](https://github.com/pekkabyte/asema) for its implementation, named after the Finnish word for "station". As a platform browser can be seen as a railway station housing platform(s) that connect people on different sides of a market running on parallel tracks, so I figured the name would fit well. 

The problem being solved is the current need for a centralized web domain address to house content of multi-sided market producers for easy access by content consumers. This centralized nature seems to often lead to [enshittification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enshittification). This problem could be tackled by altering how web browsers work on a fundamental level: adding more interoperability and sharing of data between a select dynamic collection of websites of different origin to enable a formation of a platform as a whole without a central one domain. Instead of showing one domain on the address bar, the consumer could be presented with the title of the selected platform type (social media, entertainment, news ...) with the ability to add or remove from the collection of websites that are the content producers. As a separate definition from a traditional web browser this could be experimented in a safe environment where expectations of a traditional web browser are not fully present. Platform browser could potentially be a subset of a web browser functionality with some different underlying mechanisms as a specific tool for a specific task. 

One way to approach increased website interoperability would be to run multiple concurrent separate webviews inside one platform browser app and share the data over them manually. This increased need for sharing of data needs to be clearly communicated to the consumer as distinct from how traditional web browsers operate. Maybe this could be visually presented as moving items from one webview to the other and the consumer having ability to control the flow. Maybe the consumer could move an avatar inside the platfrom browser app jumping from one view to the other and holding the data as inventory items to pick up or put down. 

The platform could then be presented to the consumer as one mashup page of decentralized origins for contents. So for the consumer a tab on the platform browser could look like an app of a traditional centralized platform with rows of content inside one abstraction of a page. 
